Okay this is a Spring Boot application
for IBM's DB2. So I'm going to show you
how to set that up and walk through it
now the DB2 database driver, you need a
repository for that if you want to use
the public repo and you can see on line
28 there on my Maven POM I've added in the
repository from IBM. So we can go out and
get that DB2 jar file which is quite
nice to be able to get it from a public
repository node. It's not Maven Central we do have to set up a separate repository
for that, now if you're in an Enterprise
setting you might I want to add this in to your
own internal Maven repository but for a
public repository you will need to add
in this repository as I've done on line
28 to 33 there and then we are able to
pick up that dependency on line 36 and
this is for the DB2 database driver and
the rest is pretty straightforward for
Spring Boot. Line 43 we're bringing in
the starter for Spring Data JPA so we're
going to be leveraging that. Line 47 we
have Thymeleaf and then line 51 we have
the starter web so pretty simple
web application here that we are dealing
with for Db2. Now to give you a quick tour
of the application itself we have a
single Entity. Nothing too complicated
here we are just as a Product Entity has an id value , description, price and
imageUrl. So not a lot of brains to this
now we are using Spring Data JPA so we
set up a CrudRepository for Product and
it's just a simple CRUD repository in
case you're not familiar with Spring
Data JPA by extending this out it gives
us basic repository commands where we
can save, find, check if something exists
get a count or delete an object and this
is all provided by Spring Data JPA so by
creating that interface at runtime
bring data JPA is going to give us that
implementation of the the repository
which we'll be able to work with. Now
just going up from there I've coded a
ProductService which gives us the basic
CRUD operations that we're going to be
utilizing within the web application and
good habit to always code to an
interface especially when you're writing
Spring stuff and here is the
ProductService implementation and you
can see that it's taking in the
repository bean and again this is the
ProductRepository that's going to
be provided by Spring Data JPA
and this is kind of a simple facade over
working with the repositories and the
service we are going to wire him into
our controller so I have a Product
Controller here and the ProductService
gets wired into the controller and then
we're also using a ProductForm so
this is a converter there on line 24
so I am using a command object pattern
and this is a simple converter so if
you're not familiar with Spring they do
have a converter interface which allows
us to do type conversion so we're going
to convert from a ProductForm. Or from
a Product to a ProductForm and we'll be
utilizing that in our display on the
web application then finally here's the
actual ProductForm so this is what's
going to get bound to our web
application of the forms so we'll use
this as a backing bean, some people
would call that. Now let's here take a
quick look at the template and if you're
not familiar with Thymeleaf this is a
basic Thymeleaf template so this is the
list and I do have an entire course on
Thymeleaf and the templating language
and what you can do a Thymeleaf so
pretty simple stuff here. We're going to list and it'll iterate
over a list of products so this is
what's going to come up initially, here's
the ProductForm we can see the Thymeleaf commands
there as well to see what's going on and
this will display the the form that
we'll be working with and then finally a
show screen to show an individual
Product. So nothing too
complicated here the next thing we will
get before running it is application.properties and point out a couple things
here on line 5 is the datasource url of course you want to make this DB2
specific localhost and DB2 by default
will run on port 50000 and I am using a
database of example so you need to set
that example text to whatever DB2
database name you're working with and
then 6 and 7 are passwords, user ID
and password and then finally the DB2
driver and a couple niceties here
that we're going to have on line 16 we'll
log out the SQL that's being utilized
and then the Hibernate setting so we are
doing a create and drop so we'll create and
drop the database every time we run,
Hibernate dialect here so I am going to
go ahead and run it so the the biggest
thing that you're going to be setting
are probably these three lines here as
far as your particular settings for DB2.
Now let's go ahead and run this I'm just
going to run the application and we'll
we'll go through a little demonstration,
so fairly light Spring application so it
does come up pretty quickly we can see
that we did get a SQL error back but it
looks like it was just a warning and the database table was created. So let's
jog over to the application now I have
it running in Chrome. So I just refresh
this so there's no products list so I
can come up with a new product, give them
a price of $22, image URL, so there's no no
validations on this at all, it's
pretty simple so you can see that that
does get created we'll get a product ID
listed, I can come back to the list
screen and we can see that that new
product is there I can come in and edit
that and let's say new product 3333 and
I'm going to do 7777 there on the URL
just to see a change we can see that did
change in fact now I'll come back to the
list screen and we can see that the
changes did a occur and I can even
come in and do a delete operation and
since there's no products to list we
don't list out the table but we still
have the link to create a product so
pretty simple little web
application using IBM's DB2 on the
backend via Spring Boot.